Either way, you'll see a random string of characters in the euro that represents that specific post.
So with that in mind, let's jump back into our post comptroller and work on the function that will
be called for a route like this.
So jump back into post comptroller.
And we are working on this function down here named View Single.
OK, so within the body of this function, before we render this template, we're going to need to talk
to our post model and request that it looks up a document in the database.
We know that that would be an asynchronous action that takes some time to complete.
So we know that our post model is going to return a promise.
So let's do this right before the word function here for review single.
Let's include the word async, OK?
And then within the body of this function, let's get rid of this line just to give ourselves a clean
slate.
All right.
Let's go ahead and set up a try block.
And right after its closing curly bracket, let's also set up a catch block, so let's do this within
the tribe, like, let's say let post equal.
And so far, the pattern we've been following would be to say a new instance of our blueprint or model.
But in this case, because we are not creating a post or updating a post or needing to validate anything,
I don't necessarily like this object oriented approach.
So instead, let's just say let post equal.
We're still going to use our post model, but let's just look inside it and pretend that we have a function
named Find single by I.D. There's nothing special about this name.
I just made it up.
But I do think it's aptly named right.
We want to load or find or retrieve a single post document and we want to find it by its ID.
So within these parentheses, we would just want to pass the final segment of whatever you call a visitor
is trying to visit.
Right, because that's the ID of the single post they want to view.
So let me show you how we can access that within our request.
Object Express is going to have a Paramo object short for parameters and inside that we can just look
for ID.
This name corresponds with the colon ID or that dynamic part that we set up in the router.
OK, now at the moment this function doesn't actually exist yet.
We're going to need to go create it.
But we can imagine that when we do create it, we would set it up so that it returns a promise.
So right before this, let's just include the word awaked.
OK, now below that line, this is where we would want to render out our single post template.
So down here, let's just say response render the name of the template is single dash post, dash screen.
And then we'd want to include a second argument.
This would be an object of data that we want to pass into the template.
So let's just include a properly named post and set its value to our post variable.
So post colon post.
OK, but what about the catch block?
Well, we wouldn't want our promise to always resolve.
Sometimes we'd want it to reject, for example, if someone typed in a U.
RL that didn't make any sense, meaning they tried to include malicious code at the end of the Eurail,
or they type something in that in no way looked like a mango DB did.
Or even if they do type something in that looks like a mango devide, but it doesn't find any documents
in our database in any of those cases we would want our promise to reject.
Right.
Because it's not going to find a post.
So if it does down in our sketch block, we can just render a 404 or sorry, we can't find what you're
looking for template.
Now, let's not get too sidetracked for now.
We can just send back a response.
So response dot send and let's just say for a for template, we'll go here later on.
We can circle back and set this up to actually render a page not found template.
OK, now that we have this set up, we better go in to our post model and create a function with this
matching name.
So let's go ahead and save this file.
And then within our models folder, let's jump in to post JS and let's remember that this time around
we are not taking an object oriented approach, meaning back in our controller.
We are not trying to create a new instance of a post based on this blueprint.
So this time around we don't need to worry about our constructor function and the this key word and
adding methods to its prototype this time around.
All we need to do.
Let's scroll down to the very bottom of this file and right above this final line where we export everything.
Let's just do this, let's say uppercase post dot and then let's just make up our function name.
So find single by IDE and let's set that to equal a function.
Now, you might be confused by this.
We know that uppercase post is a function right up at the top of this file.
That's where we have our constructor function named uppercase post.
So you might be wondering how can we add properties or a function to a function?
Well, remember that in JavaScript a function is an object just like any other object.
Meaning?
We can use its name space or meaning we can store properties within it by just saying DOT and then a
property.
This is great because now within our controller, we can leverage uppercase post either as a constructor,
right.
From an object oriented perspective, or we can just simply call a really simple function on it.
Now, I didn't invent this strategy of being able to use a function in multiple ways like this.
If you've ever used the popular Mongo DB object modeling tool named Mongoose, then this setup might
be familiar to you, right?
You know that within your controller, you can leverage your mongoose model both to create new objects
with it as a blueprint, but you can also call simple functions from it as well.
OK, let's get back to the actual task at hand within the parentheses for this function.
Let's receive the incoming ID, OK?
And then within the body of this function, we would want to return a promise.
So return a new instance of promise within the parentheses for promise.
You include a function and within the parentheses for that function is where we would include resolve
and reject.
OK, now within the body of this function, before we actually try to look any data up in our database,
let's first make sure that the requested I.D. makes sense and isn't malicious.
So within our function, let's set up an if statement if parentheses curly brackets for our condition
within these parentheses, let's say type of which gets its own set of parentheses inside it.
Let's pass in the incoming requested ID and let's say if that does not equal string, meaning if a user
is trying to send over an object or anything, that's not just a simple string.
That means they could be a malicious user trying to perform an injection attack.
In other words, any time we're going to use user input data to build a query and Mongo DB, we need
to make sure that it's just a simple string of text and not an object.
OK, now after the quotes for string here, but still within our parentheses for the condition let's
say, or and then we can include another condition.
So I could say two plus two equals four.
So this is the old symbol in JavaScript.
If this is true or if this is true, to create one of these characters, it's just the key to the right
of your closing curly bracket key.
And also be sure to hold down the shift key when you press that game.
We want two of those to create the OR.
All right.
Now for our second condition, we don't actually want two plus two equals four.
But we want to do here is make sure that the incoming ID is a valid Mongo DB object ID.
What I mean by this is in Mongu DB the ID for a document.
Right.
This unique string of characters, not only does it need to be a certain length, but also only certain
characters are allowed in here.
So if the final segment of our U.
RL is not even a valid Mongul divide, we do not need to waste a trip to our database.
We could just immediately send a page not found message.
So after the other symbol than, let's say, object I.D., we already required this in at the top of
this file and let's look inside it and call is valid within the parentheses.
Let's pass it the requested ID and this would return true if it was a valid ID.
Let's include an exclamation mark at the beginning of this to say if it's not a valid ID, OK, so if
the idea is not just a simple string of text or if it's not a valid Mongo devide, well then within
our if curly brackets, let's drop down.
And not only would we want to reject this promise, but below that we would also want to return.
We'd want to prevent any further execution of this function.
All right.
Now, after this if statement, so after this closing curly bracket for the F, let's drop down.
And if JavaScript ever gets to this point, that means we have an ID value, that we are safe to try
and look up in our database.
So let's create a variable, let's name it post and let's set it to equal.
And then we can just use a Mongo DB crud function.
So we know that we can work with our collection of post documents by using our posts collection variable.
And let's look inside it for a method named Find One.
Within these parentheses, we tell Mongo what we're trying to find.
So let's give it an object, and we want to find a document where the underscore ID field has a value
that matches the incoming requested ID from the euro.
So down here, let's create a new instance of the Mongo DB Object ID and that gets its own set of parentheses.
And in there we can just pass in the requested ID.
Cool.
OK, now below this line, we can just write one more if statement, let's say, if parentheses curly
brackets and after the closing curly brackets for if, let's also add an else block, OK, for our condition
within these parentheses, we can just say post this variable that we created on this line, because
if this Mongo DB method finds a document, that's what it's going to resolve to.
If it doesn't find a document, then this variable would essentially be empty.
So this would not evaluate to true.
Now we do need to be careful with the timing of things.
So we would not want to execute this until this action had a chance to actually complete or resolve.
Now we know that this Mongo DB method is going to return a promise.
So right at the start of this, we can just say, oh, wait this way, JavaScript will wait for this
promise to complete before moving on to further operations.
Now, if we're going to use a wait, we need to be sure that we are within an async function.
So up on this line where we say return new promise and then give it a function right before that word
function, just include async.
Cool with that in place.
Let's get back to our if else.
So if we successfully found a post, let's just have our promise resolve with a value of that post document
else.
If there is no matching post document for that ID, let's just reject.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
Be sure that you also saved your latest changes to your post controller and then back in the browser,
if we visit SGB Post Slash and then just random letters that you type in, we should see a message that
says 404 template will go here.
Right.
Clearly, this is not a real post ID, but to really test this out, let's go into our Mongo DB database
and within our posts collection, just find the post document from our previous lesson and click in
to its ID field.
And we just want to copy and paste this unique string of characters within this object ID.
We don't need to include the quotes.
We're only interested in that string.
So click into this field, just select the string of characters, copy that in your clipboard, back
in the tab with our web app, then just paste that in as the final section for you URL.
Cool, so that template is being rendered now let's just go ahead and pull in the actual title and the
actual created on date and the actual body content to refresh your memory of how we can do that.
Let's jump back into our post controller to back and post controller.
Remember that when we are rendering that single post screen, we're also passing a bit of data into
it.
We're passing a property of post, which is going to be the document from the database.
Right, because that's what this promise resolves to and that's what we're storing in this variable.
So let's jump into this single post screen template, then your views folder, single post screen,
SJS around line number five, we see a heading level two.
So instead of this fake hardcoded title, let's get rid of that.
So just empty heading level to tags and instead let's do something dynamic in an Ejaz template.
So less than percentage equal signed output to close that tag is just percentage greater then.
And we could just say post dot title, let's give that a save and test it out.
So back in the browser, when I refresh, we would expect this title to change.
Perfect.
That's the real value from the database.
OK, up next, for now, let's not worry about pulling in the actual author.
We can circle back to that later.
For now, let's focus on the created on date.
So back in our SJS template around line number 16, we see posted by the author on and then the date.
So let's get rid of this fake hardcoded date and instead let's output something dynamic so less than
percentage equal sign.
Let's close that tag out.
We want to begin working with our post document and look inside it for the created date field.
And then first, we're just interested in the month so we can say dot get month and now in JavaScript
months are zero based, meaning January is represented by a zero instead of a one.
February is represented as one instead of two, so on and so forth.
So after this we can just say plus one to get around that.
OK, that will pull in the month value.
After that, let's add a slash and then we would want to pull in the day value so less than percentage
equal.
Close that out percentage greater than in here.
Let's work with our post, get the created date.
And in JavaScript, all date objects have a method named git date.
So that's going to be the day of the month.
Finally, we're interested in the year.
So after this closing tag, let's say slash and then the year.
So to output that less than percentage equal, close that tag out in here.
We want to work with Post, get the created date and JavaScript date objects have a method named git
full year.
Cool.
I realized that was a lot to type out.
Do you remember that?
You can always take a look at the completed example files for particular lesson.
And if you want to copy and paste this line of code, that's OK.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So if I refresh, let's pay attention to the date.
Awesome.
This is now real data from the database.
Next, let's pull in the real actual body content.
So back in our template around line number eighteen, we see a div with the class of body content.
Let's delete the sample hardcoded paragraphs within that div.
OK, so now we just have an empty body content div and let's just output so less than percentage equal
sine close that tag.
Let's just output our post object's body field or body property postop body.
Let's give that a save.
We refresh.
Perfect.
So now that we've pulled in the content, the created on date and the title, it's time to circle back
to the author of this post pulling in this data from the database is going to be a bit more challenging.
This is because let me jump to Mongo DB Atlus.
If we look at a document for a post, we aren't actually storing the author's username aggravator.
We're only storing the ID of the user account.
They authored the post.
So when we're looking up post documents in our post model, we need to learn how to perform a second
step of looking up the relevant user document that is listed here as the author.
Right.
We need to look up this matching user document to actually know its user name and email to find its
gravity.
Well, luckily for us.
Mongo DB has a feature that will let us do exactly that, and that's what we're going to cover in our
next lesson.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.